---
layout: post
title:  "LeEco le"
date:   2019-05-26 12:00:00
categories: mobile
---
Recently I have bought a mobile phone from china aliexpress shop. I didn't want to spend much money so I choose model le2 from LeEco. It has 3GB ram and 64GB storage([more detailed specification here][lineageos-s2specs]). I had bought it from [2RTTRADE Store][aliexpress-2RTTRADEStore] and it took 25 days to arrive into my hands including clearing through customs. It arrived all right with ordered silicon case and protection glass and with preinstalled android 6 with a leeco modifications.

I wanted mobile phone where it will be easy for me to exchange existing androidOS with a clean android alternative and where is update available on a regular basis. I chose [LineageOS][lineageos-main] where is my device officialy supported.

I followed [installation instructions][lineageos-install] with following catch ups:

1. I chose install adb and fastboot on linux from provided link to zip file. I needed to add udev rules to be able to communicate with connected mobile phone. I used succesfully [these instructions][udev-rules]. Rules would have been probably added automaticly when installed from package manager. But I am not sure.

2. After unlocking the bootloader and reboot an android screen wanted password showed up. No password fitted. Finnally I googled out that this is an android issue(don't remeber the source). When you set up some kind of password this will happen. And I had setup lock by gesture. No password I found on net had worked and I finally made a factory reset. It worked without any problem. After reboot I was back at square one. I had set no password now and unlocked bootloader based on instructions without any problem.

3. I encountered last problem when trying to install [twrp recovery partition][recovery-twrp]. After reboot to recovery there was always original recovery program back. It turned out that during reboot there is utility which always rewrite recovery partition with original one. All I needed was to issue command fastboot reboot and immediately hold buttons for enter recovery mode Volume up + Power. All is written down on [twrp recovery partition installation][recovery-twrp], see end paragraph just before change log. One need to read instructions up to end before proceed with them:).


Rest of installation went smoothly and I enjoy [LineageOS][lineageos-main] on my mobile. It is based on Android 8.1 now and I hope there will be Android 9 soon. Installation of update is really easy. When update is detected you can chose to download and install it. Updates are available in Settings / System / About phone / LineageOS updates.


[lineageos-s2specs]: https://wiki.lineageos.org/devices/s2
[lineageos-main]: https://lineageos.org/
[lineageos-install]: https://wiki.lineageos.org/devices/s2/install
[recovery-twrp]: https://twrp.me/leeco/leecole2.html
[udev-rules]: https://www.janosgyerik.com/adding-udev-rules-for-usb-debugging-android-devices/
[aliexpress-2RTTRADEStore]: https://2rtrade.aliexpress.com/store/816360?spm=2114.10010108.100005.2.374e4733IoN79g
