---
layout: post
title:  "gimp tips"
date:   2020-10-28 12:00:00
categories: delphi programming
---

## How to make a color transparent in Gimp

Here [make a color transparent] I found super helpful tip to make one color transparent. As explained by using alpha channel it will influence all pixels and not only one color as wanted. It's basically about to select fuzzy selection tool(icon like magic wand), turn all parameters to zero and click on the area with selected color. Then by pressing Del or by Edit / Clear selected area will be cleared and becomes transparent.


## Multiple hints

Here [hints on control regions] I have found an easy way to support multiple hints in one control. It is build up inside delphi alrady. All what is needed is to create handler for CM_HINTSHOW message. Message is of TCMHintShow type and by specifing CursorRect and HintStr you can tell what hint and where will be displayed. It works fine even if regions are one next to another.


## Inline declarations

[inline declaration] is part of newer delphi versions, probably from XE3. When one codes short methods they this feature is not so important. But use them in for loop is handy:

{% highlight delphi %}
  for var I: Integer := 1 to 10 do ...
  for var Item: TItemType in Collection do...
{% endhighlight delphi %}


Especially when taking advantage of type inference:

{% highlight delphi %}
  for var I := 1 to 10 do ...
  for var Item in Collection do ...
{% endhighlight delphi %}



# Links:

* [make a color transparent]


[make a color transparent]:https://alvinalexander.com/design/how-to-make-color-transparent-in-gimp-without-bleeding/